---
layout: post
title: Postdoc position in air-sea interactions and submesoscale dynamics (San Diego, California)
subtitle: Scripps Institution of Oceanography
tags: [postdoc, USA, observations, ocean submesoscale, air-sea interactions]
comments: false
---
Position: Full-Time

Salary: $67,000 annually plus benefits

Start date: January 2024

Spatio-temporal observations of wind over the ocean are crucial to
improving our physical understanding of air-sea interaction processes, and
in turn, Earth's weather and climate. However, beyond observational
technological challenges, specifically collecting high-resolution orbital
or suborbital spatial observations, central questions about the
interpretation of these measurements still exist, in particular to address
mesoscale and submesoscale variability and the active coupling between the
winds, waves and currents.

Luc Lenain (SIO/UCSD), Mara Freilich (Brown) and Nick Pizzo (URI) are
seeking a full-time postdoctoral research associate with a background in
atmospheric sciences, physical oceanography, or a related field. The
postdoc will be funded through the NASA Ocean Vector Wind Science Team
(OVWST) program and S-MODE, a project that aims to characterize the
contribution of submesoscale ocean dynamics to vertical and horizontal
transport in the upper ocean by employing a combination of aircraft-based
remote sensing measurements of the ocean surface, in-situ measurements from
research vessels and a variety of autonomous oceanographic platforms, and
numerical modeling.

The postdoctoral scholar will collaborate with Lenain, Freilich, and Pizzo
on the analysis of submesoscale ocean dynamics and air-sea interaction
processes, using a combination of S-MODE observations, theory, and
numerical simulations. The postdoctoral scholar will be primarily based at
the Scripps Institution of Oceanography, UCSD, with extended stays expected
at Brown and University of Rhode Island.

The postdoctoral scholar will benefit from professional development
opportunities including mentorship by the project collaborators and
resources available at UC San Diego such as those through the Office of
Postdoctoral Scholar Affairs, Scripps Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion
office, and the Teaching and Learning Commons.

Qualifications include: a Ph.D. in atmospheric sciences, physical
oceanography, or a related field, completed prior to postdoctoral
appointment start date; strong quantitative skills and experience with data
analysis or mathematical modeling; strong writing skills and experience
with submission of manuscripts to academic journals; demonstrated ability
to work both collaboratively as part of a research team and independently.

Two-year initial postdoc appointment.

Toapply, please send the following by email (llenain@ucsd.edu,
mara_freilich@brown.edu, npizzo@ucsd.edu)
- curriculum vitae
- statement of research interests and experience
- contact information for three references

For full consideration, materials should be received by October 15, 2023.
